



                                                                              Software RequirementsSpecification
                                                                                                   for
                                                                                  Library Management System




1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this document is to familiarize reader with software. Specification describes allhardware and software requirements for product, behavior of it and its components. SoftwareRequirements Specification (SRS) allows to verify the customer that all his requirements areobserved and implemented correctly by de- veloper.The intended audience for the SRS reading consists of system end-users (patrons), customerengineers, software developers.

1.2 Scope
The  software  will  reflect  all  the  requirements  defined  by  the  customer.  College  LibraryManagement System will allow to perform all necessary procedures for librarians and patrons.According  to  customer  requirements   the  software  to  be  developed  will  consist  of  threedatabases:•Item’s database (books, journals, magazines, newspapers, diploma thesis, etc)•Patron’s database•a small Access-based database with information about digital items, that College has (software, music) integrated with Item’s  databaseLMS will also provide all necessary services for databases such as creating, deleting, updatingand  searching   information.   Patrons   will  be  able   to   access   to   the   library   site   (web-based)through   the   Internet,   scattered   throughout  the  library  for  sending  request,  receivinginformation  about  current  status  of  the  books  or  renewing   them.   User   interfaces   will  beergonomical and easy-to-use


1.3 Deftnition, Acronyms, Abbreviation
•JAVASCRIPT -> Synchoronous Single threaded language 
•NOSQL -> Not Only Structured query Language
•MONGODB -> Document Oriented NOSQL database
•NODEJS -> Javascript runtime enviroment based on Google Chrome's V8 Engine
•NOSQL -> Not Only Structured query Language
•MONGOOSE -> ODM for Mongodb

1.5 Overview
The implementation of Library Management starts with entering and updating master recordslike book details, library information. Any further transaction like book issue, book return willautomatically update the current books

Overall Description

2.1 Product Perspective
LMS is a replacement for the ordinary library management systems which depend on paper work for recording book and users’  information.LMS will provide an advanced book search mechanism and will make it easy to borrow, insert and index a book in the library.

2.2.1Administrator
•Admin should be able to insert, modify and delete books.
•Increase the period for borrowing a book for specific type or group of users.
•Can get the information (status report) of any member who has borrowed a book.
•Add and edit book categories and arrange books by categories.
•Add and edit authors and publishers information.
•Can send lateness warnings to people who have exceeded deadline date.
•Can record books returned by users.

2.2.2Users(Library Members)
•The member should be provided with the updated information about the books catalog.
•Members are given a provision to check their account’s information and change it.
•Members have the ability to search through books by subject, title, authors or any information related to the book.
•Can extend the period of borrowing books according to the library policy.
•The customer may suggest a book to be brought to the library book collection.


2.2.3 Architecture of this system
UsersThe Architecture of this system has three major fields.
1)SuperUser - This user can create new admin for the system.
2)Admin - created by SuperUser has ability to Add or delete any book in the database.
3)User - students who wants to get or return books.

End points
For SuperUser
1) /superuser/:id
For a new Admin to sign up in the system, they need to have a unique id generated by a SuperUser. Whenever someone hits the end point with proper SuperUser id as variable paremeters they will get back a unique identifcation String Now this unique identification String can be given to the "would be" Admin by the college ,so they can complete there sign up. Validation for a SuperUser will be done through a middleware called validateSuperUser.js. Where it will try to find the SuperUser which has a superUserId:id in the superusers collections in the db. If found validation successfull , otherwise invalid authentication error will be provided.In case the genarated String is already present in the db associated with another Admin, it will return status 500.In the front-end using INTERCEPTORS we can relaunch the req until we get a unique string.

SuperUser model Structure
const superUserSchema = new mongoose.Schema(
  {
    superUserId: { type: String, requird: true },
  },
  {
    timestamps: true,
  }
);

Every SuperUser has a superUserId of type String and which is required. Along side the superUSerID, the timestapms of document creation and updation will be store in the db.

For Admin
1)/admin/signup
With the Unique Identification String provided by the college(SuperUser) , they also need to give some additional information about themselves. Along with the information a new Admin doument will be created inside admins collections in the database. And the registration will be completed.
The password provided will be enrypted using NODE.JS internal module called CRYPTO.
The encrypted password is stored in the db.

Admin model Structure
const adminSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  name: { type: String, requird: true },
  uniqueId: { type: String, required: true },
  phone: { type: String, required: true },
  email: { type: String, required: true },
  password: { type: String, required: true },
});

every filed is of type String and they all are required. The uniqueId is the id provided by the superUser.

2)/admin/signin
If a already signed up admin wants to sign in , they need to provide the email along the password.
If validation is done,the admin will be provided with ACCESSTOKEN and REFRESHTOKEN in a cookie.
Whenever the admin will do some adminly stuff his ACCESSTOKEN will be verified, and the token
has a time to live filed of 24hrs ,so every 24hrs the token will be expired and now 2 things can be done
from the frontend. That is after receiving 401 from the backend again using a INTERCEPTOR and relaunch
the req to refresh the accesstoken using the refreshtoken or you can logout the user , so they can sign in again.
The cookie itself has a time to live of 30 days. To refresh the accesstoken the i already have given couple of function at the backend but corresponding routes are not made yet, if the requirement ask for that,we can add the routes, otherwise it might make the crwler heavy and an decrese in performance.

2)/admin/addbook
If a Admin wants to addbook to the books collections in the db, first the accesstoken for the admin will be verified.
If the requested user a admin then the req will be forwared to correspoing handler.
Where the book with all the information will be uploded to the books collection.

Book model Structure
const BookModel = new mongoose.Schema({
  name: {
    type: String,
    required: true,
  },
  bookId: {
    type: String,
    required: true,
  },
  authors: {
    type: [String],
    required: true,
  },
  count: {
    type: Number,
    required: true,
  },
  genre: {
    type: [String],
    required: true,
  },
});

bookId is a filed that is not required by the admin to provide,but it will be genareated at the backend.
authors is a array of type String as there can be multiple authors of a single book.
count is the number of the same  book admin wants too add.
genre is a type of string array, a book can belong to multiple genre so array is required.

3)/admin/deletebook
similer to addbook but here you will be able to delete the entire set of a particuler book or some number of it.
4)/admin/returnbook
When ever a user returns a book to the reception,admin can initialze this route with bookId and userId.
So in books collections to this bookId books a book will be added but increseing the count.
And using the userId field the user will be removed from the list of users who have taken a book.

BookThatAreTakenModel model structure
const BookThatAreTakenModel = new mongoose.Schema({
  bookId: {
    type: String,
    required: true,
  },
  userIDValue: {
    type: String,
    required: true,
  },
});


so the the db there is a collection called BookThatAreTakenModels where when ever a user gets a book a new documents will be generated thet this user with userIdValue has taken a book with bookId.
After returning the book ,the count of the book will be incresed and this document will be removed from the bookthataretakens collection.

5)/admin/logout

If it is a valid admin, upon hiting this end point corresponding accesstoken and refreshtoken will be deleted.
So now to do all the above tasks now admin needs to sign in again.


For User

1)Similer /user/signup and /usersignin routes are impleted for the user as well

UserModel model structure
const userSchema = new mongoose.Schema({
  name: { type: String, required: true },
  userIDValue: { type: String, required: true },
  phone: { type: String, required: true },
  email: { type: String, required: true },
  password: { type: String, required: true },
  book1: { type: String, required: false, default: null },
  book2: { type: String, required: false, default: null },
  book3: { type: String, required: false, default: null },
});
Every user can have at most three books with them, no user can have multiple copy of the same book

2)Similer /user/logout routes also added.



Routes that are not added to this iterations are

/admin/userswithbook

Upon hiting this api end point admin will be validated,and if found true then a list of JSON will provided about all the users who have taken a book from the library

/books
to get the list of all the books that are present in the library

This backend can be connedted with any frontend ,be it react ,vue or anguler js or normal html css js based.
But in the frontend we also need to use some provate routing technique along with global context handler 
to store the infromation of the user or admin. Technologies such as redux toolkit can be a great help here.
But if the choise of frontend is react the react-context combining with useReducer hook can simulate the redux toolkit.

Along side we also need to understnd the CROSS ORIGIN RESOUCE SHARING policy , as both the front end and backend will run of diffrenret PORTS. At backend w can use then cors middileware with origin set to "*"

The entire testing has been done using postman.


Tools and Technologies that are been used

JAVASCRIPT
NODE JS(JS RUNTIME BASED ON CHROME V8 ENGINE)
EXPRESS JS(NODE'S EXTERNAL MODULE TO BUILT HTTP BASED SERVERS,AND TO HANDLE ROUTES)
JSONWEBTOKEN(ANOTHER NODE'S EXTERNAL MODULE TO CREATE THE ACCESSTOKEN AND REFRESHTOKEN FOR BOTH USER AND ADMIN)
BODY-PARSER(ANOTHER NODE'S EXTERNAL MODULE/MIDDLEWARE TO PARSE JSON BASED REQ BODY)
COOKIE-PARSER(ANOTHER NODE'S EXTERNAL MODULE/MIDDLEWARE TO PARSE VALUES IN THE COOKIE)
MONGOOSE(THIS IS A ODM USED FOR MONGODB DATABSE,AND ALSO IT USES MONGOCLIENT DRIVER TO CONNECT WITH THE  MONGODB DATABASE)
MONGODB(A DOCUMENT ORIENTED DATABASE THAT EXCEPTS JSON DATA STORES THEM AS BINARY JSON(BSON) AND RELEASES THEM AS EXTENDED JSON(EJSON),THIS NOSQL DATABASE ALSO SUPPORTS ACID PROPERTIES AND HIGHLY OPTIMIZED TO WORK WITH NODE BASED APPLICATION)

NODEMON(A DEV DEPENDENCY TO AUTOMATICALLY START THE SERVER UPON UPDATING THE CODE)
DOTENV(TO STORE THE PRIVATE KEYS THE PRIVATE ENVIROMENT SO UPON UPLODING THE CODES , SECURITY DOESN'T GETS COMPROMISED)

2.4 User Classes and Characteristics
We have 2 levels of users
•User module:  In the user module, user will check the availability of the books.–Book return
•Administration module: The following are the sub module in the administration  module.–Register user–Entry book details–Book issue

2.5 General Constraints
•The information of all users, books and libraries must be stored in a database that is accessible by the website.
•The Online Library System is running 24 hours a day.
•Users may access LMS from any computer that has Internet browsing capabilities and an Internet connection.
•Users must have their correct usernames and passwords to enter into their online accounts and do actions


2.6 Assumptions and DependenciesT
he success of this system depends on
•Existence of an Internet service to all people in Gaza Strip.
•Are librarians and users comfortable with computers and have enough ability to work with the product?
•Website interface must be friendly and  easy-to-use.
•The search mechanism should be simple and fast.

Functional Requirements
3.1 Scope of the work
There are several motivations to order new computer-based College LMS:
•To modernize College Library database, where data was stored in a card-based catalog
•To optimize librarians’ work and  time
•To join small Access-based database, where library has stored information about digital items (software, music)
•To expand services of library and patron’s possibilities
•To check ability of commercial using of library management  systems.The  LMS  will  allow  remote  access  to  library  database  via  Internet  only  for  patrons  afterauthorization  proce-   dures.  The  patrons  could  search,  renew  items,  send  requests.  TheCollege LMS will provide remote access to other databases.

3.2 Scope of the product
Features provided by the library management system:
•Store necessary information about items in the library:–Author;–Item’s title;–Call number;–Year of publication–Location in the  library;–Number of copies–Current status
•System will provide librarian to add, modify, and remove items to/from the library database, and check availability of the item.
•System will allow patron to get information about his/her status after authorization procedures:
–User name–User address–Student number–Number and information about checked out  items–Requested items  information
•Possibility to search and request items in the inter library loans, online databases through Internet.

3.3 Functional requirements
Functional requirements are the following:
•The LMS should store all information about librarians and patrons, their access keys, priority and etc.
•The LMS allow searching items by author, title or keywords
•The LMS should support 500 patrons and 1000 requests/min simultaneously.
•The LMS should allow librarians to add, delete and modify items in database, and check availability of the items.
•The LMS should generate request’s reports for librarians every day, on base of which librarians could make decisions about acquiring or retirement the item
•The LMS should create notification and send to patrons by e-mail automatically after item’s overdue
•The LMS should provide to search, request and renew items either from the library computers (LMS application) or from outside the library through College site(web-based) though the  Internet.
•The LMS should provide access to previous Access-based database, online databases

Nonfunctional Requirements

4.1 Performance Requirements
•The system shall accommodate high number of books and users without any fault.
•Responses to view information shall take no longer than 5 seconds to appear on the screen.

4.2 Safety Requirements
•System use shall not cause any harm to human users.

4.3 Security Requirements
•System will use secured database
•Normal users can just read information but they cannot edit or modify anything except their personal and some other  information.
•System will have different types of users and every user has access constraints.4.4 Error Handling
•LMS product shall handle expected and non-expected errors in ways that prevent loss in information and long downtime  period